You are all doing a great job.
Ryota, did your teacher give you any explanation
about the materials?
Yes, I have a lot of photos, illustrations,
newspaper articles, etc., as reference materials.
We were given a list categorized as to
whether they were the teacher’s originals or those of others.
She told me to be careful with other people’s copyrighted materials.
In principle, when using the copyrighted works of others,
it is necessary to obtain permission from the copyright owner.
However, under certain conditions, it may be used without a license.
In this case, what other types of works
besides the teacher's works are involved?
Let's look at some specifics.
We who help them have to understand it too!
Actually, I don’t really understand copyright,
so thanks for the help!
Let’s start with the public domain.
Ryota, do you know what the public domain is?
Yes. It is a copyrighted work that anyone is free to use.
Yes, that’s right.
To be precise, it includes not only copyrighted works
but also patents and other intellectual property rights.
In any case, if no rights have been created or
the rights have expired, the work can be used freely.
Eh. No rights created? Expired? What does that mean?
It can get complicated, so let’s just focus on copyright here!
A copyright is automatically created when the author creates the work.
And when the protection term ends,
it becomes a copyrighted work that anyone can use.
This is because the Copyright Law is designed to protect the rights
of authors and to ensure fair exploitationof copyrighted works
and to balance the two and contribute to the development of culture.
The protection term depends on the type of work but currently,
it is generally 70 years after the author's death.
70 years! That's a long time!
Sure, it's a long time. But when that protection term ends, the rights expire.
You mean they become freely available?
Yes. However, even after the author’s death,
if works may be offered or presented to the public,
you are not allowed to use them in a way that infringes
on the moral rights of the author.
Please keep that in mind.
Now, in the materials, you can use the works
that the protection term has expired
at the open campus without any problems!
Yes...so the materials like this are fine.
Um, excuse me. I understand that rights expire.
But what kind of works don’t have rights?
For example, the Constitution, statutes, court decisions, etc.,
are not subject to copyright and moral rights.
This is because the government and others aim
to make its contents widely known.
Another example of rights expiring even within the protection term is
when copyright owners may have relinquished their rights
and declared them in the public domain.
So that’s how it is! So, even within the protection term,
it is okay if the copyright owner declares it.
Yes. However, simply saying that you are free
to use copyrighted material is not enough.
Please note that this does not constitute a waiver of copyright.
The same applies to free materials. Please check the scope of use approved
by the copyright owner. We need to comply with it.
“You can use it," is certainly a license to use, isn’t it?
I would not mistake it for a waiver of rights.
Also...the teacher's list contained some works
that used a Creative Commons license.
A Creative Commons license is a license in which the copyright owner
specifies the scope of use of the copyrighted material in advance
by attaching a designated mark to express intent.
It's one of the forms of licensing, and it's becoming quite common these days.
The advantage is that the copyright owner presents this information
along with the content, allowing users to use it within the permitted scope of use.
Creative Commons licenses include, Attribution, NonCommercial, NoDerivatives,
ShareAlike, and you can express your intention by combining these marks.
It would be easier to use copyrighted material
if all content was marked with this kind of symbol.
That would be a big help.
Yes, we are still in the early stages.
In the future, as with the Creative Commons license it would be desirable
for copyright owners to express some intention to promote
the use of their copyrighted work.
Well, Ryota, I think you still have some things left
on your teacher's list, how do you plan to handle those?
Let's see, we are almost there.
I think it’s okay to cite some of the newspaper articles.
Yes, that is correct. I’ll elaborate on that another time,
but if the requirements for citation are met,
they can be used under the limitation of copyright.
The rest of the materials were ones that the teachers had
individually obtained permission to use for their classes only,
so we gave up on using them as they were for the open campus.
Instead, I am thinking of taking my own photos and drawing illustrations.
Ah, so that’s where I come in!
Then I’ll put it in the public domain as a special favor!
Senior I’d like some delicious sweets. I’ll get a reward right?
You remembered that. You’re so smart!